hey everybody its Terry here with the
local offline collaboration call on
April 15th
um we're sick today Jim is going to give
us a look at the research he's been
doing into ipfs and peer to peer on
mobile should be really exciting and but
before we do that let's do just a quick
go around because there are a couple of
new faces so we can just super quickly
introduce who we are and what we're
excited about or working on in this sort
of offline local collaboration space so
I can get us started my name is Terry
Chadbourne I work at protocol labs run
into proto school project but I am also
someone who's been running offline camp
which is an event for people interested
in offline first generally not
specifically Steve oh so that's where
where my background is in this space I'm
gonna go this way on my screen so
Diedrich you're up
everybody recognizes project browser
integrations ecosystem work working with
a lot of collaboration partners and some
of the folks here on this call I've been
working with Jim earlier presentation
all those work that Jim did on his first
grant and this one moving on to a
broader area on mobile generally best
practices ways that people are building
now constraints and also into the
attitudes more advanced users but also
excited to see this research see the
light of day thank you whydo you next
time my screen yeah it's me I'm working
on ipfs and space when ipfs is equipping
into a browsers really excited about
work
Jim is doing it for starting discussion
about how do we start thinking about
content addressing in the address bar
when you don't specify the source and
you can get data in an offline
environment so it's really exciting
space for me awesome Molly
hi um I work when I pee of us and I'm
always very excited about the local
offline collaboration space from an
educational perspective and just in
general allowing people to use tools
resilient ly without any type of
connectivity to who are posting your
data or relaying your traffic and yeah
I'm super excited to hear what Jim has
come up with I'm very excited about the
the mobile work that's being done in 90
FS space or that birdies doing textile
three box a number of other groups so
excited to see how this will inform
their trajectories forward nothing
Niko hi thank you for the invitation
teri my name is Nico I part of
organizations that related with the be
welcomed and directly connected one is a
alter Mundi who is building the liver
router that helps con communities at
ARPA currently all kinetic connect
themselves we know that half of the
population in the world is unconnected
and the web and tools will be one
vehicle potentially so I am looking for
that connection in between what Jim has
produced and what not only the
unconnected but also the less privileged
people in the planet can get out of his
research and the collaboration acaba out
and also am part of the association for
digital communications and doing this
year I'm going to be working on
strengthening foundational technologies
for community networks for us
foundational technologies would be those
images that community groups will rely
on to grow stronger and resilient lis
and we will be working on mechanisms to
support community leaders in detecting
these technologies which was are useful
for them and how they can leverage them
and also on the technology side how we
can support
technologists and technology teams in
that community networks are relying on
to have better plans more sustained
Cillian sustainability in their own
projects and for those who haven't
joined us before if you scroll back in
the meeting notes you'll find
presentations for nico on cool
peer-to-peer community resilient network
I know we're keep on doing so there's
great stuff in there
Yanis you're up
hello my name is Janice I work Collins
as a research scientist and ya local
offline communications have been a very
nice topic of being investigating for
many many years and some yeah looking
forward to listening to new developments
in this another goals great Erin
hey-ya an errand satola I work at
textile really excited to kind of learn
more about this group we've been working
on mobile related ipfs stuff for a while
here and kind of with the newest version
of our technology are really trying
they're like rethink what the best way
to integrate into mobile is really
excited to learn from you all very cool
and Jim yeah I'm Jim Coulson I'm a
designer a researcher or and I as
Dietrich mentioned before I work
previously on the browser design
guidelines which is also research in a
design face to establish yeah like Vidal
said before kind of how I confessed for
to work natively in a browser for users
and then now I've concluded the research
end of the ipfs mobile guidelines which
is yeah wouldn't you'll see in a minute
basically yeah so
I'm on mute thank you for telling me I
was on mute that was helpful um so for
today on our agenda we have that
presentation by Jim and then we'll have
some time for questions to talk more
about that and then I also put on the
agenda to do some brainstorming for
future topics we'd like to cover on this
monthly call so we can start thinking
through some speakers and would like to
be moving forward so Jim I'll let you
dig in feel free to share your screen if
you have anything you want to show us
yeah right
[Music]
okay can you all see Firefox there with
ya browser design guidelines in there
right and hopefully you don't see
anything else which I don't think you
should do umm right so um yes so sorry
one second yeah so basically we're
looking at how to how to expand ipfs in
the thinking around it into mobile that
could mentioned before and and we wanted
to look at how we would involve users
and these guidelines will kind of bridge
the user needs discovered in the
research and then help that and ramp in
building out ipfs in particular in
mobile in terms of they would help
unified thinking and best practices and
then this obviously this would move into
a design phase and that design phase
would consist of you know building out
these and designing these necessary
components and interactions and
interface design frameworks that people
like Erin etc would go on to use ideally
to kind of build and grow the community
for ipfs in the mobile space so we'll go
over in the intent of the research and
the methodology and then what we did and
what helped us find out and we wanted to
look at and like I mentioned before a
user centered approach to finding the
best way to design for ipfs for mobile
so with the combined research and design
um that you know they're kind of can't
have one without the other
I don't think to find out what works for
users and then go and do that and
instead of kind of working on
assumptions looking at kind of where
those needs are and then how we could
best address those so in terms of its
laid out here the user sorry the IP
efest mobile design guidelines therein
get booked currently and then this is
also in a github repo which there's the
links for and I can send them around
again as well and this also goes to a
protocol lab skip book as well too so
yeah it's you will have your own you
know obviously Brendan and all
among that so the first thing to to look
at is you know what are the
considerations for mobile because
there's a I don't mentioned before and
somebody else did it as well about the
browser design guidelines and that was a
distinctly different animal than a
mobile phone so we're looking at this
these these big differences between
mobile browsers and the desktop they
have a lot of different interactions and
then also development is a lot different
for mobile than it is for desktop as
well and there's obviously questions
around development environments for
these so when you have kind of this
Universal platform which is a browser
and you have standards versus this kind
of app centric world and and kind of
this push back and forth between using a
mobile web and not with things with like
progressive web apps and then looking
into another consideration is a big one
that I've spoken with a couple you like
Aaron is wrong battery life and power
you know and wanted to find about how
much of this it is an issue so that's
another thing we're looking at so just
how it works for people and then the big
obvious one is connectivity bandwidth
signal that sort of thing it's a it's an
obvious issue with connecting because
there's none of this will work out
without connection but then we have this
offline issues and kind of what is the
syncing what are people I people's ideas
around syncing and finally this kind of
amalgam of privacy security and identity
and this is a bit of the elephant in the
room speaking with our our three cohorts
because nobody wants to talk about or
just kind of wants to put it off and
there's a lot of interesting mix of
attitudes around kind of these ideas
[Music]
okay so yeah just moving on we'll kind
of talk a bit about the methodology that
I used for this so there's three a
couple parts the firt world two main
parts was the first is the mobile survey
review and that was looking at I'm sorry
I just saw strain at second so we looked
at what was out there and what was the
previous effort so we could understand
what the
skip was kind of what we're dealing with
what people have done before and then we
ran a workshop with kind of internal
like us developers such as wide on and
with you tricked and we're looking at
kind of gathering these initial issues
what were the previous experiences with
this sort of thing and looking how we
can kind of frame the research from that
end of things in terms of what their
concerns were and kind of how that might
lead us to which users we should talk to
and what and kind of what we might talk
to them about and then we talked to
people who who use or might use IP FS
from normal so this is we'll get into in
a bit the research interviews and kind
of the fundings from there so the first
bit is in the application survey is
looking at mobile browsers now we looked
at what people use for content and files
on the internet for the phones and one
thing that we found talking to everybody
is that a browser on a mobile is still
kind of this this first stop you know
there's one-stop shop for information
and also that people interact and share
from the browser and then through the
Ohio s I'm in vice versa so it still
plays an extreme role even though the
apps are you know quite blending use
oops sorry
once again
and then also when I highlight the
development issues again with this kind
of back and forth between being absent
Rick people developing apps and people
kind of interacting and knowing kind of
what you can do on a phone thrown up and
then versus you know kind of a more wide
open and standard Universal platform
like a browser and kind of how these
interactions differ and then and then
following that we looked at kind of
different mobile sharing interactions in
particular we looked at sharing photos
now we're interested in looking at how
users right now share files and because
it's kind of easy to understand it's and
everyone we talked to did it they shared
a file of some sort
now we chose images because this is a
common pattern and then also it was one
they all did and it was differs from
other media in that for instance audio
and video and stuff like that because
they were actually moving or sharing or
copying the actual file rather than
sending links which seems to be the more
the most prevalent pattern on mobile
with that sort of medium audio and video
noting and we wanted to do this looking
at that kind of those patterns and I
could show you one real quick for
Android so there's deeper investigation
how one kind of goes to a photo shares
through that and there's also for iOS
and the same with a browser but we
looked wanted to see where the seams and
the interactions were so we wanted to
see kind of what people were up against
what their workarounds were kind of if
this was a natural interaction kind of
to see where the seams are and kind of
see where the design and the research
might be with following that we looked
at we did an application survey so you
know and we might wondering why these
bits of focus why these particular apps
would they were chosen first to be
stable and available so ones that were
released in Android and iOS stores or
they were mobile web apps and we wanted
to see what were the previous approaches
and under steals different
understandings of PDP and we wanted to
see that in kind of a broad spectrum so
p2p on mobile has quite a broad spectrum
and covers a lot of different things and
that in the kind of big three groupings
that we discovered were
messaging community or hosting which is
highly related to messaging and then
file-sharing and then some of them as
we'll learn kind of cross over as well a
lot to which is interesting and
absolutely covered and again you're free
to read in more depth the investigations
here and the findings for each of them
in particular we're many verse
so that's uses scuttlebutt
Communications and it's can run offline
and online and it's generally a kind of
a chat based app so it's generally fits
into the messaging and posting share
drop which is a web app which is for
kind of anonymous file-sharing
peer-to-peer doesn't require accounts so
that fits into file sharing status which
is blockchain app which is you know you
can use messaging and posting but you
can run the apps within that frostwire
which is a torrent app so it's for an
application it's done Android only so
it's stable release we tested it fairly
well and you torrent mobile which is
another torrent one and then Haven which
actually uses IP FS 2 and runs on a open
Bazaar peer-to-peer network and then
finally fair drop which is also another
file web-based file transfer now and
then after that we looked at well what
were the features and again I've kind of
broad I we broke it into these three
groups the messaging posting and file
sharing and then breaking it down into
what kind of had the same broad spectrum
of features and that for each of them
across the board and what didn't and so
for instance if some some sort of
features came out immediately already
which is showing you know let's say
where someone's were sorry some shared
both how they might handle messages
others didn't and then this led to a
further deeper study which was the
interaction study now in the interaction
study we are showing for instance that
chilling status was interesting in
particular because how it was shown
wasn't consistent at all or for instance
how accounts were handled or
unless a identity was very different
from category to category and from app
to app and there's no real good way of
handling identity it seems beyond the
email and password it looks like in
terms of ease of use and again we can
see there's some we're using private
keys without recovery some had not yet
there's lots of interesting things
around logging in and out and some allow
you to log out and then finally kind of
confirmations and notifications so
looking at how the user is understands
kind of what is happening and how that
these different apps and platforms
provided them well this essentially a
layer of comfort or you know there's
this understanding of what's going on
and then finally a handling media so we
talked about photos before but as we'll
see before here and then you're free to
check in in greater depth in terms of
having a media player what things they
supported and in in terms of the
findings it does anybody have any
questions so far should we keep them to
the end and feel free to chime in if you
like know some good thoughts on vodka
Rihanna
okay we are speaking behind your back in
the chat okay yeah I can see yeah yeah
all right no problem
yeah so yeah the findings were kind of
buried in some I guess you'd say insist
unexpected things happened so one thing
that was common through most of them
there was lots perhaps too much
onboarding on information a lot of times
so it was great that they were showing
that there was no shortage of explaining
the benefits of these particular apps
but it maybe could have been too much so
this is one thing to bear in mind in the
mobile platform is readings difficult if
smaller screen sizes generally less time
so these sorts of issues are interesting
in terms of the findings across the
board keys are difficult to manage you
know when you tell somebody they have a
48 word or whatever it is seed strain
the words that they need to save
somewhere else or it all goes away
that's things like this are difficult to
deal with so another thing to bear in
mind so there's this always a trade-off
versus security versus usability kind of
that highlights that torrent apps we're
really good at showing what was going on
something I wouldn't suspect necessarily
but in terms of the status of the
Downloads Peters connected that sort of
thing they generally handled that quite
well messaging wasn't very consistent
especially in terms of permissions and
that sort of things for a lot of apps
you could just follow a person and then
send them a photo which is you know
could lead to problems for instance and
then found a couple of examples in the
chat community absolutely you know that
that you that you could just again
follow that there wasn't any sort of
authentications you could you couldn't
really jecht somebody necessarily so
there's kind of breaks pattern with a
lot of chat apps where you can block and
then you can kind of users can provide
these sort of safety layers with
themselves and finally with file share
apps share drop and fare drop they were
the simplest to use but still had
patterns of use for instance QR codes
that might be uncommon and this sort of
thing but interesting because it kind of
reflects other mobile sharing patterns
so what's app for instance authenticates
with QR codes a lot of blockchain
absent that they are you know they use
QR codes to to initiate the transfer so
that was really interesting as well too
and then moving it to the second section
so after that looking at all the kind of
let's say the at the the broader
landscape you know we moved into to
actually use please switch now as I
mentioned before we ran a workshop
before with that I led myself and then
looking at kind of where how to frame
this right and that workshop led in and
then you know looking through materials
the going through the understandings
from the application you know looking at
the application survey we're looking at
kind of we need it to start somewhere so
he kind of came with a broad set of well
assumptions you know and and to start
this inquiry and to frame this user
research for example people use mobile
phones differently than on the desktop
that was an assumption that's not
necessarily a hypothesis that isn't
something we wanted to prove but this is
just a way to kind of lead the
questioning the conversation around
things
another example is infrastructural
services on mobile devices such as
battery life and bandwidth are essential
to all users you know for instance we
this was part of the conversation with
all three cohorts of users but then we
found that it wasn't so simple so again
this is more of the way to start the
conversation rather than something to
prove or disprove and yeah let's just
move on to the interviews really so as I
mentioned we had three groups the first
of which was experts earlier what we're
calling early adopters and then
potential users so the first group the
experts these people all had experience
with IPF or similar for example at
technologies one of them is here right
now and we wanted to find insights into
these deep Nicias for instance offline
and that was kind of again we're talking
about looking for the seems in use and
interaction and looking for these edges
to find out what might be in the middle
for people so some of the key findings
for that can kind of click into there
and kind of look at that the rough
groupings our perception and adoption
and then data and sharing and
within that for instance one of the
things that was interesting that came up
was that battery life was assumed to be
important to users that that was true
speaking to the other users and their
early adopters but it wasn't so simple
so their understanding of power and
their worries about power work or rather
batteries where we're quite different or
nuanced I guess you could say and then
identity that it's hard to explain but
it has but there's many different ways
of handling it
and then another thing that came out and
as well as is this idea of airdrop is
this kind of gold standard and I came up
with all the other own many of the other
studies in the cohorts as well too and
then the next group we can just click
back here where that really adopters now
the early adopters are we have or were
people who are working in advanced
technology or related fields so for
instance health data and security or
maybe blockchain related things and so
it's not necessarily directly within
this p2p field but they all had kind of
tangential feels that they're working in
and they also had a user focus as well
too
now within the early adopters again
because they had a user focus there was
again a lot of kind of commentary about
the interface and interactions and users
that rather issues that users
specifically might have around their
kind of views and then around data and
security came up a lot of times one
thing that was interesting was a Ron
notifications and status came up a lot
and you know telling the user what is
going on and especially around something
important that's going on but then not
being overwhelming about it so this came
up in the application survey how how
it's different how the different
notifications and kind of the for
instance syncing is something syncing is
it not syncing there's a lot of
different approaches but it's quite
important and this came out a lot and
the conversations around cloud services
as well - and again identity logging in
on all these sorts of issues because
it's difficult right and it's and I
guess that this cohort might have had
more empathy with them like less
technologically experienced users as
well and there didn't seem to be any
kind of single silver bullet sort of
thing
besides single sign-on but that has its
own difficulties as well - and then
finally this this notion of cloud
service is about kind of that it's a
fact all every single person we used we
talked to use theater Google Drive or
Dropbox I mean any numbers of others but
they're every single one was sort of
apprehensive about it which is really
interesting and then another another key
funding that I thought was personally
fascinating especially from a design
standpoint is that file management is
difficult so you know they're it's not
just about the singing it's all about
the organization and how you're dealing
with what do I have
who has it that sort of thing and then
finally the last group was potential
users and they were chosen from a spread
across Europe and Africa so there's
three groups in each and covering well
generally all corners of each continents
really and all had to not have anything
to do with software development for
instance that was the first to run it
and they had all used p2p which was
usually torrance in most cases and cloud
services so we
can kind of compare these experiences
some of the key findings from them was
media's was a huge focus to their use
around files that that wasn't I guess
not too strange to understand but it was
good to have that verified with this
particular group and all understood p2p
and actually liked the idea but didn't
really know what they would use it for
besides torrents so that was kind of how
do we bridge that kind of gap right in
that the idea is quite easy to explain
especially compared to things that are
kind of related let's say blockchain
which is difficult to explain but to
kind of potentially a non-technical user
that is quite easy to get it one
computer connects to another and then
how privacy is understood varies and we
kind of had this assumption that in
different parts of the world that
privacy has different kind of approaches
different understandings um but it's
interesting that it's how nuanced it is
so for instance some of the people in
Africa we talked to you weren't worried
about privacy whereas some people
assumed that they're not and vice-versa
so it was quite interesting the the
nuances but in general I think one of
the things that kept on coming up was
the concern about it but that it just
it's just being it's difficult so
something that's just kind of put off
and so again these sorts of things that
were kind of teasing out of these
interviews I really will feed into this
kind of development of design guidelines
and kind of this summarized in here in
the findings and and there's been a lot
of work around for users by by people
like Dropbox by apple with airdrop and
with Google with Google Drive so this is
they've done a ton of work and these are
long-standing things that people have a
lot of experience and I'm more
importantly a lot of comfort with but
it's a sort of weird ambivalent comfort
as well too that they see it as
something that's stable and dependable
but then there's also sort of this
notion or there's apprehension around is
this service still gonna be around a
year do I actually trust them with this
many files like I believe that it'll
still be there because there's a big
dependable company and this idea about
backup is a big deal that it will be
safe up there you know
and who has the file I think that this
is an interesting thing talking to
different people about this you know
this assumption does it matter where the
file actually is as long as it's safe so
this is something that came up a lot in
these conversations as well too and and
again like I said before another
interesting things kind of in these
groups are I should have mentioned
there's these are broken off into these
three groups cloud services syncing and
usability and awareness and then finally
security and identity will just come up
again and again this idea of security
and identity and again as I mentioned
before kind of at the beginning that
this idea of battery and signal that
it's all over the place the kind of
attitudes and approaches to it and a lot
of things were kind of disproven for
myself personal sumption that battery
would be a bigger deal in certain parts
of the world and it wasn't necessarily
but signal was but what signals thought
of and people's relative I guess
acceptance of how what's good and what
isn't it's also quite relative so that's
really interesting to kind of find and
hear these things and then you know kind
of see where to design from there you
know to it well to see how you can
design across the board for these sorts
of things really
and then finally um as I believe I might
have mentioned before privacy is
understood differently in different
context and that's not just
geographically at all it's many times
between personal and work so that people
are I wouldn't say paranoid necessarily
a concern in different ways for
different stuff so a lot of it has to do
with just people's lives rather than
necessarily where they live although
that hasn't definitely has an influence
as well and then finally we took all of
this so this this work around the
applications and what work has been done
out there before and then the user
research and kind of people's attitudes
people's understandings things people's
opinions on what could or should be and
then kind of developing this well this
design strategy which would feed into
the design phase and ultimately this is
all about growing the user base ipfs is
that a really interesting position um
because it's let's say not as prevalent
and the mobile sphere is a lot of other
solutions but maybe it can start
something new with something that really
works for people and of course mobile is
the way
a mass adoption you know everybody's
seen the graphs where it's just
overtaking desktop used especially in
the emerging markets and that um and and
but there is this need to translate
research into design in these guidelines
which will lead to more and more user
focused development and so from this all
of the findings prior with looking at
different applications and you know I'm
speaking with people in those three
different chords we've kind of
constructed these key design questions
and again these are these aren't
hypotheses necessary to be proven but
ways to I guess talk through or have the
conversation through a design to look at
how we can address some of these issues
what some of them are for instance how
might we create seamless interactions
from device to device you know and well
again what is seamless mean right and
what's acceptable for people you know
what's kind of where are those breaks
that are acceptable where or not again
in how can i PFS be better not just as
good as what's out there for example
with file management that's a terribly
interesting design case and
notifications that status are going to
have to have special attention paid to
them that seems quite evident but
because you know it's there this way to
reduce cognitive load but again that
makes a better experience is if ipfs
from mobile handles notifications and
status and all these sorts of things and
settings better than let's say existing
cloud services then it would give it a
distinct advantage for instance and a
lot of these things add up to how we can
not only make things better quick and
not as hard but actually better you know
looking for these little scenes these
little things that can be addressed
across the board really and so what next
is largely about taking all of this and
designing the interaction and the
components that go into them for other
people to use and iterate on and you
know feeding that back into guidelines
and building a community of well design
and research practice around this so
yeah that's it for me really I'm happy
to take questions address any concerns
or if anybody has any comments
yeah Jimmy thanks for presenting this oh
no worries happy - I'm just gonna say
you take a quick scroll through the chat
and see if there's anything you want
their own experiences right I really I
really appreciated that you were looking
at kind of resource constraints because
that offline camp when I hear stories
from more like developing world's rural
healthcare kind of scenarios we always
it's brought to light all of the
resources that we take for granted in
our urban settings here but they're all
kind of inter playing and different
people value different you know battery
life versus this versus that differently
based on their slips right I think an
interesting note on that to further the
kind of line of thinking Tory would be a
people I guess in I used I lived in
London for a long time where offline is
is a big deal because you're inside a
lot potentially or you're underground
that you're literally underground where
you don't have signal so and people
don't necessarily take that into account
until you start talking about things
like public transport and trains and
planes and that sort of thing and it's
it's not necessarily a geographic
question at all - so there's like these
little weird situations that all of us
run into you know where this online
offline and and it's also like data
costs for a lot of people you know it's
not just you know in certain regions or
certain parts of the world that you know
data on LTE or whatever might cost a lot
like for other people you know so
there's a teenager in London has to pay
in their mind see that's a lot of money
you know for to pay for you know X
amount of data per month - yeah I think
male in her - that Jim that the the
problem in London will probably get
solved by by the ever growing market of
telecommunications yeah I agree
you have an issue in connectivity when
you get to the south it will probably
get
fixed by putting a lot Romina a couple
of millions of dollars somewhere to to
other bigger pipes and putting longer
cables and that's not gonna be an issue
I think
but for the weather so
I think it's a pretty good issue to do
offline first a study was is focused on
a transformation many times for the
simile is to exist but well III I wanted
to bring you a film simulation to the
well I I would say you can crawl through
the yeah it's it's again these things
are relative so people's understanding
of safety and security is relative but
again a teenager in London if they can't
get the Spotify that's the end of the
world for them potentially but it might
not be the you know as drastic is that
they have no communication whatsoever
but I mean these issues affect a lot of
people so I guess that's just what I was
trying to say that it's offline isn't
just a problem in certain markets that's
really we all we all encounter in in
very different ways from each other yeah
so one question which I apologize if I
kind of miss this in the intro but let
me talk about this like ipfs on mobile
are we is protocol labs about to build a
product called ipfs on mobile or are we
creating a body of research that textile
or anyone else in the community can kind
of reference as they build
user-facing things that they want
accessible on mobile I can take that one
this is definitely this is definitely a
loaded to to inform ecosystem as a whole
some of this we can use to inform our
protocol design decisions as we're
making decisions around high and low
water marks around like whether to
invest in say automation and regression
testing for things like power
consumption for given basic operations
of our network protocols that's
definitely where it can help help us
from protocol design standpoint
from ecosystem standpoint I see this as
they think about how many native or
mobile apps exist today and how those
grew over over time and how I believe
they actually grew from 2006 to 2010 how
do we and we're in a situation now with
a million terrible apps app set like
that where the user
the user commitment like we did research
Mozilla that showed that people are very
reticent to install a native app at all
how do you get people over that install
barrier with p2p it's even higher
barrier if the user knows enough to know
it's b2b maybe but for me this is about
important in that it can help the next
10,000 apps that are written on top of
of ifs or scuttlebutt or web tour it can
help the next 10,000 apps to have a base
of learning a set of basic
recommendations things to look at not
exhaustive not good not you know comp
totally comprehensive yet but at least
something to start working with and
something where when they're coming to
our documentation website or you know
I've talked to the doubt folks they have
simply secured doing a project around
decentralisation UX generally that our
ecosystem our communities are sharing
information and best practices about
what works what doesn't work especially
these things that wearing out that the
glass right things like notification and
frequency how much to show like you know
just showing showing pure count is maybe
a signal of one part of your
connectivity but doesn't necessarily say
something about the quality of those
connections how do we communicate these
more nuanced and complex concepts to
users as we're building the next 10,000
apps I stopped your share just so we can
see everybody I did manage to catch an
eco your question about rural versus
urban all of the people that I spoke
with actually were in urban context so
in Africa as well which was in Nigeria
South Africa and Kenya so all of them
were yeah they were in cities so but you
do bring and those who ya know in
relation to that Jim South Africa and
Kenya are the wealthiest countries in
also true you Niger is now yeah so your
your sample might be biased I would say
if you want analysis it's also a small
sample but
finding users to find users to do this
is is quite difficult so we're quite
lucky to get those people to be honest
and so but yeah it definitely would love
to continue study with different places
on in the past I've done field work in
Rwanda and I tried to get people there
but I couldn't so it'd be great yeah for
further work maybe Nico has people who'd
be interested in doing interviews if you
want to do further research we have very
extensive network of communities that we
work with I think that what we need -
that they would be eager to participate
if they see value would come out of it
but if we know for me though I have been
joining these meetings and they have
been very informative you know I haven't
got my mind around how much ipfs is
interested in those population groups
right that are the ones that we are very
much fun so I'm not interested in
putting decentralisation and
peer-to-peer technologies on top of
those that are already connected those
it's an interesting problem it's not a
problem that we are focused on the ones
that we are focused on are those that
are yet to be connected that will
eventually be connected but we'll get
that done in terment that we have built
for them in a way because we are not
putting them much in the driver's seat
in the relationship with the iteration
with a net worth at that they use we are
bringing that to them you know so our
job is to shift that conversation so to
put it on their hands and to allow them
to be layer infrastructure so as long as
ipfs is willing to work on that area
closer we are more than happy to
contribute to that liaison even aside
from user research I'd be super
interested in how those
directed and Community Design networks
operate because we can do things like
add those into our into our test
scenarios so we want to understand how
IP fest performs in infrastructure
that's community designed community run
I talked about a few projects about this
and I would love to be able to have the
performance characteristics of those
networks so that we can make sure like
we can add that to our list of like make
sure that I give us operates for these
given basic scenarios in these in those
and you know
Dodge is designed kind of from the
ground up already for things like dodgy
networks but I feel like the areas we
talked about here bandwidth consumption
power consumption those are the areas
where it's not both not optimized in
tune or there's really big unknowns
about how it operates so having that
even a description of the conditions of
Community Design networks like a
community LTE network well what is tower
strength when it's throughput what is
available bandwidth out even hours per
day like if people are extent on
extended periods like we found them in
Brazil people do three-hour for our
train lines so their power and bandwidth
needs for large chunks of the day are
very different so even abstract
information like that would be helpful
for designing test scenarios also one
example I came across in the interviews
was the one guy had two phones no sorry
he had four phones and two sims in each
so which is just that you're not only
dealing with different networks but it
was never the same connection on any of
them at any given time right and then so
you have this cascading level of
different signals and then battery which
is on which sin for which network and
what is what network strength at
different times so it's really
fascinating and requires di probably
definitely a more kind of exploration of
these sorts of use cases on once this is
fascinating
I agree it's passionately I when I saw
it I I've been in certain conditions so
most of them's global South so that
those scenarios have come up so but also
eating impressive like why do people
need to get into
that it is because the conditions are so
bad so low so that they need to have
multiple streams to find the best deal
in it seem to do they call that it gets
its drain it drains their income the
less and and in order in order to do
that they need multiple for each stable
so we need to think about those theories
so I always think about when we spin up
700 peers you know like whenever I see
like 700 peers showing up in my browser
for I get fed us or any networks like
the gathering peers is away the more
peers the better chance your requests
will be fulfilled quickly and that's the
math that's been done by the designers
at the protocol level so when you think
about that where every single bytes that
you transfer is eating the money that
people bought to be able to get three
megabits bonus top-up on their plan that
week the the math doesn't work out at
all right the more Pierce as an
architectural design choice it falls on
it on his face immediately for that
whole class of users which is billion of
people around the world
oh so good oh I was just gonna say
there's kind of this like third scenario
that I'd be curious to learn more about
see what kind of appetite people have
for the idea because it's you know
there's either like not p2p and not like
SS like some centralized proprietary
system or there's like this idea of ipfs
on mobile but then the third thing which
i think we're very curious about it
textile right now is the idea of like
designating a some sort of always-online
node as your representative it's not on
your phone but it's something that your
phone can communicate with whenever it
needs to and that could there's kind of
like I don't know on your home network
on your router maybe a trusted third
party hosted service that you trust that
you signed up for I don't know but yeah
just this idea of kind of you know my
phone's not online all the time it's
it's hard to run a full node on my phone
it's expensive or it needs a lot of
battery or whatever so I'm gonna
delegate a lot of the responsibility for
my data to this trusted node that lives
somewhere and this isn't something
exists so it's very common commonly so
it's not something that users are just
gonna like tell you about but it's
something that we are curious about you
know designing and supporting and seeing
how it can work I mean we didn't even
under project one of the things that we
see a lot is this thing they put on the
on your roof house that connects you
with others within your network let's
say maybe similar to maybe you have
heard of NYC mesh or LTE or other mesh
networks but it is a gig free and not
focused on crypto
so you might not have seen it around
your cover but you can already have it
if you want anyway
you have it in your roof but then you're
inside your house and the creativity
between your roof on your house is
tricky because what you have out
probably a tin roof or how or you're far
from the roof so what we usually do is
we run a cable an Ethernet cable to the
house and then we put a low onion and
inside your house you put that access
point where any wireless affects access
point to give you connectivity within
your house and connect Duke so the other
members of a network what we want to do
is for that router to become your family
hub and that family have will play
multiple roles will give you access to
the community network will provide you
with a let's say like a set-top box
experience like a Smart TV experience
for those families that don't have
a computer readily available so there is
a fixed computer all the time in your
come in your house and that's it that's
relevant because in some countries where
computers are not a thing and they only
have one phone the one that has the
phone is the man so women in general
don't have access to computers when
there's only one computer house so by by
tying the computer to the hub but to the
home when the man leaves the house to
come the woman gets access to the
computer so there's a gender component
there and then it also acts as a
permanent peer-to-peer after ended in
the mesh network so the phone is still I
know a member of the net of the network
but your own node is your own replica of
your of your peer-to-peer resources so
whenever you get offline or even if you
are online but you want to have it a
content more readily available for
others you can push it to your router to
your home house and the same could
happen by pushing it to the router the
router could the infrastructure that
never thought that could also be one as
I was saying in the chat as like
resilient you know like they a content
delivery network like the network could
already have that content and have it
really value for others even if they're
members of the network so if you are
interested in digging into that we are
wonderful here that sounds great I was
going to say a lot of these situations
are in terms of user centered design our
I guess what you call the nikolic
extreme users so but the the great thing
is about it to explore these kind of
edges of things then you you always come
to or you generally come to like a more
happy middle and a lot of what you're
talking about Nikko that would work in
many places not just you know that these
sorts of things are on connecting to the
roof or to the building and then having
your own route or your own sorts of hubs
yeah this works for a lot of people as
well too so it's about kind of learning
these different examples and translating
that to to something that works across
our products broad spectrum of people
um Aaron I was gonna I was gonna mention
on what you mentioned before about this
on always like basically it's like an
outsource node I guess you could call it
or something like that that there is a
bunch of torrent services that do
something similar to this so that you
they do the downloads and then they
manage it up there and then you you know
you have the account the search is done
somewhere else there's one called foot
style is one is in Turkey but it's yeah
so these services are really interesting
and there is some movement it looks to
be that these this is developing more
and more as a field so yeah sounds like
it definitely could work okay cool
anybody else this may be more question
for Dietrich and Lydell I'm not sure but
to what extent do the relationships that
we negotiate get harder when we're
talking about mobile so the two of you
spend a lot of time talking to like web
browsers and figuring out
interoperability is there a bigger
hurdle in the mobile space than there is
in other places or is the easy because
everybody is being forced to actually
secretly use WebKit and they're all the
same or I
yeah really really pins iOS everybody
has their hands tied behind their back
there are a few ways to punch through on
the web browser anyway you know Aaron
could probably speak some more to what
things like text on iOS specifically to
find what the optimal balance between
you know performance to execution and
how they're implementing things like
crypto there but from from the web
perspective even even browsers that are
browsers that are shipping for example
on chromium rendering engine base but
shipping on Android also don't have
things like extension infrastructure so
it's very hard to add things like gonna
be lower level PP network architectures
without either bundling in the full node
using centralized gateways or doing all
that kind of heavy lifting themselves so
we're trying to crack open these things
here and there when we have the
opportunity to we think there's some
leverage to be add there's some of our
browser's working with are very
interested in those opportunities but it
really depends on it depends on what
what is available to - even that that
player - even that suffer bender and and
where they're where they're deploying to
iOS just super hard in some ways even
when you have access to some times more
advanced network stacks like to have
things like you know MVNOs and some of
their underlying api is for enable some
p2p functionality already built into the
OS stock and it's very solid like it
works well but it doesn't interoperate
with other platforms and also you can't
you are at a distance
from those api's you can't implement the
really lower-level nuts and bolts that
we use offer crypto and for some of our
liquid p2p now network architecture
stuff so it's really challenging did you
you you would be terrific to get in
touch with Andres talents from many
worms
he has just for the many ones to iOS of
course it's not the same problem because
I don't so it's many worse doesn't
scarlet doesn't do like intensive crypto
activities but he it's working so you
should try it out at least well yeah
I've talked to him before and it's
interesting to see like textiles done a
bunch of work and birdies and a bunch of
work as well on iOS you know utilizing
the native stack birdies recent post
about how to get Android and iOS
interoperating over ble and Wi-Fi direct
is kind of fascinating and really speaks
to the level of technical challenge
there if you pick one one deployment
channel or platform like iOS it's easier
to interoperate getting interoperability
in those lower level hardware network
ability and building I'm interested to
see how many works works between Android
and iOS
for example the planetary scuttlebutt
app doesn't work with any other
scuttlebutt apps and it's iOS only and
they're like I'll figure that out later
let's do iOS first and then figure out
the other 2 billion mobile users later
there wasn't have less money and so I'm
interested to see what the
interoperability story there is if it's
just like have to hit the network the
cloud be able to connect or not
so just a time check we have two minutes
left and we wanted to save some time for
brainstorming on future topics we have
anything incredibly pressing on this
topic that someone feels need to get
there one last question
thank you so much Jim for sharing that
yeah no no resurgence plant that's
really awesome
okay thanks so I will just take a few
notes let's see well Leo will take a few
notes what do people have for ideas what
are related concepts in the local and
offline collaboration space that you
hope we can explore in future
discussions or people who are building
cool things that we should invite to
present or are those kinds of things
or anything about sort of the structure
of this meeting that is it working well
for you
I I'd love to hear more from from Nikko
or you know what did you present on last
time Nico was it the types of local
community infrastructure telco
infrastructure they were talking about
earlier I'd love to learn more about
that yeah I have a yes so yeah I'm happy
to to bring people to the conversation
again I would I would I would also like
to hear more about ipfs offline or
global service strategy if there is any
and what I had idea but let it slip in
sleep I might it will come the past
presentation was about libre router
dietrich so you'll be able to find that
recording on our youtube channel and the
notes in the sand left same vacuum it ok
did we have someone from key week's
project in the past i was not on every
however however killings yeah qyx is
project for creating compressed
snapshots of things like media wiki
pages that includes wikipedia but also
like all the dictionaries Stack Overflow
Project Gutenberg and we are
collaborating with key weeks around
putting those snapshots on ipfs the
distributed Wikipedia mirror that we
have right now is basically an unpacked
snapshot created by the cubix project
and we are looking into ways of one
putting zine files on ipfs so ipfs could
act as a distribution network for those
snapshots
and using them directly from ipfs so
that way only like a single person in a
classroom would have to have that sim
and it does not matter if that's teacher
or one of students or something like
that and it would be immediately
available and at the same time we are
also looking into a web-based reader so
those snapshots in compressed form are
binary and require specialized reader
however there's there's like JavaScript
based one the problem is those snapshots
are hundreds of gigabytes in size
sometimes and if we put them on ipfs
then you don't need to fetch entire
thing you could fetch just a specific
bite range and you don't need any fancy
api is in a web browser
because JSI DFS or JS ipfs HTTP client
already provides all the primitives for
I want this byte range from this cid and
you don't need to specify from where and
it ideally it would work in a web
browser so i think we could have at
least maybe invite someone from cubics
to tell us a first part we'll just tell
about the project and in the future
would probably could also have a
separate one on how we can leverage ipfs
or like introduce cubics j/s if it's I
think those are my thoughts sorry for
speaking for you should type over what I
wrote for the name of the company you're
talking about which is the name is key
weeks but I have no idea how to spell it
but what else what are their topics
would you like to hear both on this coil
I'm gonna get a poke
friends since I network infrastructure
for refugee camps in Bangladesh they
have to rig all kinds of stuff his life
is like DNS is the devil is like it's
like the ultimate stopper for everything
they have to do is dependence and most
of the communication only leaves the
camp it's people in the kept talking to
each other so I you see if he will come
and talk about how they set up
infrastructure for these types of like
partial closed network where they're
high volume high bandwidth but very tiny
locality I was gonna mention to you
might want to talk to Mike Brenner for
detta for change he was one of the
people I talked to in the early adopters
category but um they do a lot of that
data for advocacy work in conflict zones
so um they've been working on something
nominally called a shutdown response kit
so because they've Yemen it's you know
all over the place and they've gone and
they've gone into other places where
Lebanon or Lebanon and somewhere else
that they were there and then all of a
sudden everything shut down and then
there's no way for them to respond to
this that it's just it's not that the
lack of connectivity and but it's
unplanned often I guess you could say
and how to kind of be able to respond to
that when in these kind of well yeah
something when you're trying to gather
data in a conflict zone is extremely
difficult to say the least
I would sorry I was thinking in relation
to user experience and the user
interfaces and experience all around
I think pouch livvie and who they are -
that had been working on this for quite
some time and could could enlighten us
intuition - how they have approached
user Center design for the area use
cases hospital run being another one I
guess there I know some words from first
now you're back in my canton the non do
your own thing so I feel like I have
something about but DJ
you should try snake Gregor from this
peak Gregor's not at neighborhoodie
anymore but neighborhoodie was involved
in the Ebola response as well with the
pouch couch and then so very sorry I
mentioned
coronavirus I hope everyone is well and
safe and clean this this has it has
affected everyone everywhere so it's
something that affects us all but the
people that are released by Malaysia now
we're surroundings are the ones that are
more affected by this situation so I
wonder specifically if there is any so
though this is offline not fund a big
ipfs conversation next Tuesday I wonder
I wonder if if there was some actions or
if there is some interest in putting
energy in how IP access could continue
to being doing direct action or I mean
direct action like supporting those that
are doing things like that or doing
things directly putting energy heads but
you have so many heads smart let's say
yeah I will just mention that protocol
lab set up did the deadline pass a grant
program to support people doing work in
the space but maybe they don't on test
yeah every single life stories MIT
that's being used for direct action you
know both or organized and also
sometimes a little bit under the covers
and borderline
you know with local law around data
protection and things like that
a couple of big stories this week too so
be interesting to talk about what that
means we project how this mean how that
relates to offline also I think it's
really interesting how these data is
being transmitted I mean just from I
guess you'd call a an interaction
theoretical sort of standpoint this this
notion of contact tracing kind of know
there seems to be a relation between you
know that they're saying about Bluetooth
connections but maybe there's some sort
of thing around there and just kind of
hops between phones and you know I don't
know and then there was also I think did
you check the link I sent you before
there there was somebody talking about
there's some company in India developing
a blockchain way to to do like anonymous
anonymous contact tracing and they're
they're talking about potentially using
IP addresses that kind of data store for
it so hold on us and I'll put a link in
here their meaning is sure so something
else if I would like to share with you
that might be food for future Collins is
we are we will be there doing we are in
conversations we that this will be live
about we diverter will be eating
conversations with a static government
is gonna be recorded anyway one state
[Music]
and we might be doing neighborhood size
deployment 1,500 families so a neighbor
a network that is a good size Network
and I I imagine that these ideas of
embedding peer-to-peer protocols in
routers or in this or in network setups
big in these deployment or future
deployments we can find opportunities to
try this ideas out
prototype together and explore user
experiences and I wonder if that's
something there that we should be
experienced that we are not yet
exploring a notary or Molly or who
there's something there that we should
be following up on maybe of your PR
people I'm actually the least connected
directly to the ipfs project right now
so they'll do a better job
talking about any of the technical
connections with when you think there's
a lot of awesome work that folks like
Aaron are doing and kind of looking at
experimenting like just in general
there's tons of people in the ecosystem
we've really been pushing mobile forward
and you know now it's noticed all the
people who are identifying some of these
problems and a chunk of the research
work that's happening here is also like
giving us better feedback loops I think
I would encourage us to look more
broadly at people who are heads down in
this space and can be a part of
identifying what we need to do as a as a
project to offer better sport all right
I need to drop in a sec to hunt another
call but I just wanted to ask a quick
scheduling question so we are
experimenting with new meeting
Wednesdays and it's Wednesday so just
checking as to whether we have another
we can follow up with us offline if we
want to but thinking about another day
that would work well for us house this
time of day been working fairly well for
people get our kind of time zone
crossover here normally we would be
meeting on the 20th of April is the 21st
free for people the Thursday
the same time try that yes of me sorry
okay so let's maybe see if a Thursday
will work for this one but I will follow
up in our github thread if anyone hasn't
seen it we use a github issue as the
place where we announce what's coming up
on this call so if you want to watch the
issue and use email notifications then
you'll actually receive an email from me
it will look like an email from me
saying balls coming out you should join
us so find that there I will copy the
notes from our chat and throw them in
the notes and lital I really appreciate
you taking care of the notes today and
we will see everybody in May thank you
so much Jim again for sharing I know
thanks everyone
all right